---
layout: post
title: Audio Visual Production, VR production
date: 2019-10-24
excerpt: Learning about the basics of VR, and pre/post procduction processes. 
tags: [AVP, post, AVPpost]
AVPpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
Many beginning aspects about VR, such as headset type differences, other realities (AR, MR, XR) and degrees of freedom were explored. However, the more interesting topic was that of discussing differences between films, experiences and games. While all are audio visual, a film is not interactive and instead follows a fixed narrative while in experiences and games there is a higher sense and possibility of interaction where there is also the possibility of a branching narrative that the user can select in various examples (though due to less emphasis on interactivity for experiences, they could be percieved as a middle ground between games and films). However, while a game is made up of multiple aspects such as its gameplay, story and characters played through by a protagonist, an experience is rather a placement of the user in the virtual world as if they were there.

A various number of playable VR examples were covered, including 3 DOF and 6 DOF experiences making effective use of their audio and visual cues to create an immersive experience. "Easter Rising: Voice of a Rebel" was the focus point in terms of breaking the experience down into pre production, production and post production processes, however "An SPMS Story" seemed to be one of many impressive examples that could help people learn about many misfortunes others face in their lives, and was my most favoured.

"Easter Rising: Voice of a Rebel" is a VR experience that depicts the Easter Rising in 1916, and has a low polygon aesthetic along with a voice recapping the events as they play out. To begin with, various scripts would have to be written out and revised to create the final script, which would then be enacted by voice actors and edited appropriately for the experience. Concept art would also need to be created, which would eventually transform into the designs of the models and the rendering of said models. These two factors would also collaborate with the creation of the storyboard, which in turn creates the scenes for the experience when compiled together with the models, audio, texturing and lighting. As a final factor, the scene would then need to implement VR compatibility.