---
layout: post
title: Advanced Technologies - Post Mortem
date: 2020-07-03
excerpt: An overall look at the module, and plans from here.
tags: [AT, post, ATpost, ATproject]
ATpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
Overall, while the year was somewhat solid, all three segments of this module could use some notable improvement. In the first assignment involving creation of a platformer in DirectX, generally a tutorial was followed in order to learn and fully set up DirectX itself, from initiating the window to drawing objects. This helped increase base understanding and also assist with any errors encountered (which in this case mostly involved the absence of one or two lines of code including such examples as the light buffer description and endscene lines) and as well as this helped set up a number of systems read text files for certain pieces of data. External things created outside of the tutorial included the GameObject class which was required in order to create multiple models as well as altering their transformations. While foundations for a Player class were added, it is not entirely fleshed out. In terms of this overall task, the foundations have been laid down however not much progress if any at all has been made on the platformer side. This would be due to the amount of time spent trying to fully implement the foundations, as difficulties with doing so caused more time to be spent on it. Not much improvement can be garnered from this, as while work could have begun on the platforming elements, the entire implementation of the DirectX framework would be required in order to not only create a functional application but also test the aforementioned platforming programming.

Task 2's CNN based work also followed a similar case, in which a tutorial would be used to lay the basics. With this however, another step was required in the form of downloading and setting up various external tools such as Spyder in order to fully tackle the assignment, which took up a notable amount of time in order to fully initialise. Once this was done properly and such issues as an incorrect CUDA version were solved, the tutorial used much like the first task helped explain many aspects of a CNN and how to build one with the intended end result. From here, map imagery was to be used next and using an external tool many segments of map imagery were obtained. This was not as straightforward as first believed however, as the training set would require thousands of these images and sorting them into their own categories (as well as omitting incompatible images) took an extremely heavy amount of time. This was even true for a test set, which though requiring less data overall would still require a large amount in of itself. As a result of this, a smaller set of data was created in order to progress, but this was soon stopped due to the inability to find an appropriate class weight for classification. This presents a similar situation to the DirectX project in which the foundations were required before the extra steps would be implemented, however in this case effort was made in order to provide the extra material (in this case the source map imagery). This on the contrary worked against the project, as an insufficient amount of data was acquired. As a result of this outcome, future endeavours related to this one would need to have less time spent on this acquisition and perhaps use an automated method for doing so, and thus have more attention given to the main system which in turn could help development of it.

The final task involving the dynamic loading of an open world saw the most progress, and is somewhat close to completion. For this, not much background work was undergone but the research done could help perhaps contribute to the NPC systems. Initially, foundations were planned out with light psuedocode which at first included the creation of ground tiles from scratch, but this was eventually dropped in favour of pre-existing prefabs of a whole map which starts out as visible. A height map was also considered, but this could have potentially clashed with my dissertation at the time and was thus not chosen. Other than this, coding of loading and unloading of specific objects was implemented without much issue, with only the occasional hiccup such as a specific chunk being cloned into the world infinitely being present but once again being solved promptly through slight code tinkering. NPCs, on the other hand only have a simple implentation, being given unique properties to distinguish from each other but not showing a wide variety of behaviours. As well as this, behaviour of the NPCs would also need to be moderated while they have been unloaded. To conclude, this task has a notable amount of progress, and just requires NPC related tweaks in order to be complete.

As a whole, each task has introduced a new learning opportunity which has been tackled with an increased sense of learning as the task continues. While this does not showcase an example of typical gradual learning much like other courses due to the nature of this module, many new skills were picked up as well as the formatting of a weekly update. This is mostly beneficial and could in a situation help prepare for working under an extreme time constraint, but the general length of each segment made it somewhat difficult to learn the basics of each new aspect in time, creating a rush in order to implement the rest of what was required before a new segment was assigned. 

Although each segment has been fully assessed and marked as of now, it would still seem beneficial to carry on working on them in order to see them through to their completion. This will be undertaken as extracurricular work during the Summer alongside other pieces assisting with certain elements of game design, and will be tackled in order of current progress with the Open World task being highest priority, followed by DirectX and then Deep Learning. This may also improve general improvements to the project, such as coding restructures and considered factors such as a height map based world map for the Open World assignment.