---
layout: post
title: Commercial Games Development - Overall Post Mortem
date: 2020-06-29
excerpt: An overall look back on the past year.
tags: [CGD, post, CGDpost]
CGDpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
--- 
Overall, Commercial Games Development has gone well. My teamwork skills have increased significantly over time as a result, and I have learned a plethora of new things. While overall involvement was not incredibly high in Demade Goose Game due to my assigned job as a sprite artist, this assignment helped broaden my skillset through creating assets under various limitations (this example including the requirements of following the NTSC Atari Colour Palette and using the style of Atari 2600 sprites). As a whole, while the game itself could have undergone such improvements as a heightened level of player flow and more levels as well as other changes to fit the style of a demake well, communication was a more prominent issue. With this task, there was not much organisation and many team members did not know how their piece would fit into the overall project and thus the final pieces when placed together did not mesh well. This as well as other problems such as duplicate files and lack of understanding of other member's code resulted in a final product and showcase of teamwork that on one hand was not dismal, but on the other hand required a lot of improvements going forward.

As such, Foundary Frenzy improved on or solved these issues in their entirety, with the more frequent usage of communication and planning tools giving way for far better teamwork and more opportunity to troubleshoot code. As well as this, a unified coding style was used and the overall group was split into pairs in order to tackle each segment of the overarching game, leading into a better showcase of teamwork and more efficient method of working. The team also worked as a group together on more occasions, due to a mix of the circumstances under which the project would have to be tested as well as an overall improvement in co-ordination. As a drawback this game's assets were not as consistent with each other as Goose Game's (due to this having a less honed in theme of a Foundary themed game), but in a direct comparison this project had a far clearer sense of flow. As the project involved creating a multiplayer game for use on a large touchscreen, inputs would have to be processed as such rather than mouse inputs. This created a difficult hurdle for the group but it was eventually able to be solved as a team effort, and helped give experience in different input systems. 

As a programmer for the Debugging segment, development was mostly smooth, especially in spawning bugs and having them cluster to the middle of the screen. Issues such as large bugs and sporadic movements were fixed through fairly simple means, and a major part of the implementation was to place it into the final game. This was not difficult to do due to how the system was developed, and as a result a competent system featuring the spawning of bugs on the screen that need to be dragged into disposal was created. However, I myself learned a lot more about version control and GitKraken's system as a whole as an accidental merge on my part caused the loss of a notable amount of progress concerning touchscreen input, in turn teaching me to be a lot more careful about commits and what files are committed. On the side of the game itself, many planned	quality of life features (most notably, dynamic systems over time as well as an adjustable time limit) and potential changes for when the game's stress meter get high enough would have certainly helped improve gameplay.

From here, Space Vacuum's FMOD oriented assignment improved on the final game while continuing with the prior improvements on overall teamwork and communication. This is made more apparent with the addition of an audio team, which needed to be briefed on required audio and worked with on programming in order to play said audio. Progress was discussed at all times and tasks were all tackled promptly, though task boards such as Trello were used a little less here and thus could have been used more to aid clarity. In terms of my own assigned task of player animations, a somewhat difficult problem to overcome was finding an appropriate avatar to use but was eventually found once the visual tone of the game was confirmed. From here, animations were implemented for most actions, however an issue concerning the reading of input axes arose. This was eventually fixed through various small changes including the use of a trigger for jumping instead of a boolean, but two other issues were not able to be fixed. This includes the rickety and unpolished nature of a camera animation when an enemy has been catched, as well as the problem of the capturing device's particle effects. These appear with various states for the device, and as well as looking very contorted do not line up entirely correctly with the device's line of fire. These effects were looked at many times and attempted to be solved, but could not due to how the assets worked.

For the overall game, there was a lot more juice with the inclusion of menu screen animations and particle effects yet was also lacking a sense of dynamic difficulty or a basic curve in the gameplay to further entice a potential player. Such quality of life changes such as this and text telling the player they caught an enemy as well as perhaps a tutorial area would have also helped in giving the game a sense of refinement. To add to this, many difficulties arose with FMOD, and as a result only a handful of player audio tracks were able to be implemented. This of course severely deducts from the game as the main way of capturing enemies has not been implemented, and if an overall clearer understanding of the audio engine was undertaken then the project would have been able to be more fleshed out.

In the final assignment, the cohort project, each group (cohort) was given a particular section of an overarching game to work on and in turn split into small teams that work on various aspects over time. This felt very similar to Foundary Frenzy's jam in the case of working with another person on an aspect of a game, and generally required more focused teamwork in order to successfully implement said aspects. This as mentioned in previous posts was creation of a vending machine system for the events segment, and was mostly handled well. Most of the issues were with figuring out the implementation, which was worked out fairly quickly on paper but took a long while to be implemented into the game as many things were learned through time. A notable example of this was the tile system, as initially not much was known about it or even that the vending machine would require it for implementation. Once this was talked about with the tile group, the vending machines were able to be given a visual representation on the game board and also be manipulated using said system. Overall, the implementation was thoroughly placed down and was added onto, with most time spent refining it and placing into the context of other systems. This generally went well, amd caused the code to become more complex over time forcing a required understanding of aforementioned systems which in turn helped significantly increase comprehension of the overall project.

This extends to an external edit made on the overall vending machine code in order to faciliatate animations, in which it was revamped in order to be more usable. While this emitted a number of features that would not be possible as a result of the animations, it helped make the code more understandable as a whole and the event more streamlined for play. 

Overall, while my best efforts were certainly in the Cohort Project, the teamwork efforts and sense of clarity were notably best in Space Vacuum and Foundary Frenzy. These showcased the full involvement of the team, and while this wasn't required in the Cohort Project, banding together more often may have certainly helped make certain aspects clear to others sooner such as the tile system. Compared to the previous two jams communication definitely felt lackluster, and many things that were learned later on about the overall game had to be asked about with others outside of the team. As a whole however, I believe that throughout the module improvements have been made not only in my programming skills but in working as a team and explaining various parts of my code.