---
layout: post
title: Commercial Games Studio - AltSpaceVR Update 6
date: 2021-02-20
excerpt: Ideas discussed during group talks with the next workstream.
tags: [CGS, post, CGSpost]
CGSpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
Currently, ideas for the next workstream have been discussed at two separate points. On Wednesday, the topic of combos was addressed detailing such aspects as the building up of turbo being affected by them as well as viable combo requirements including car formations and drifting. Combos and game progress may also affect the environment, as the project's current atmosphere has led to discussion talking about a more retro looking environment that changes over time and with combos may pave way for a synthwave esque realm for players to experience if the number of combos performed is high enough. Suggestions considering the race track itself were also brought up, as talks raised the idea of a low gravity mountain esque track which the players can use for air time in order to assist with their turbo meter. As well as the potential appearance of secret easter eggs and secret paths for the mountain, the elimination of players was discussed, such an example possibly being those who are too far behind. Though these players would be out of the race, they would be able to contribute to it via being a nuisance for the remaining racers. This would ensure a unique gameplay loop overall, as well as involvement for those who aren't competing anymore.For inspirations mentioned, OutRun Arcade has a similar feel to what may be intended here with a checkpoint based racer basing points from drifting and other skills the player performs during their playtime. Paired with this were racers with more of a party game atmosphere, such as Cel Damage in which the player has a large amount of control with their vehicle and can cause it to twist about when airborne or even grounded. 

Today's discussions have built upon these, with a notable aspect being the suggestion of creating a new environment for the assets and gameplay along with a rename. This may help create more of a unique identity for it past what has been implemented for it, and can also assist with the aforementioned ideas pertaining to the mountain like course. As well as the potential choice to downsample the resolution as to give the game a more retro look, combat was heavily discussed. Once the idea of combat was generally approved on across the team, the distinction was made that the concept of physical would fit the game more. This would be in order to keep the flow of the game going, and to not give any player a major advantage over others when considering such options as power-up or weapon based combat. As such, consideration with this has been taken and thus designing the overall course with it in mind was mentioned, in which players hit by the attacks would not be severely disadvantaged, falling to a slightly slower path if pushed away at worst. This would help alleviate a large amount of frustration with being hit, and can also serve to increase exploration of the map. A meter based system was also explored, in which combos and good driving would build up a meter that enables combat when full. This would give the players a choice of three powers, with the options ranging from ahead and behind defensive options as well as more proficiency in turning. This system helped remedy the issue of an offense based combat mechanism being thrown in front for those in first place, as otherwise this would not prove very useful due to the lack of opponents driving in front of them. Finally concerning combat, the idea of spending a small amount of the meter for a defensive burst against offensive attacks such as ramming into opponents was also discussed. An implementation such as this may assist with balancing out the game, but in turn can also invalidate offensive options entirely as players may have enough meter on hand at all times in order to negate the attacks. For a final discussion topic, more emphasis was once again pushed onto having more of a party style driving system as opposed to a realistic one. As Apex Run is framed as a party game also, this would generally make the vehicles more enjoyable to control for the target demographic due to the simplistic yet chaotic system it would bring. 