---
layout: post
title: Creative Technologies Master Dissertation Update 23
date: 2021-12-08
excerpt: Level runs and changes.
tags: [CTMD, post, CTMDpost]
CTMDpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
Once the more optimal runs were placed into the context of the easiest level, attempts were not initially successful in the slightest. Though the agent had been trained to jump with varying gaps, it did not have the correct context to reliably tackle the level and thus failed to reach the end in a variety of ways. In the instance of this level, a turn around was required in order to continue, which the agent lacked the ability to do and thus requiring the level to be altered more towards clearability in this state. As such, the level has now been altered to be entirely from left to right, causing there to be more space underneath due to the absence of the lower initial areas. Thus, an easier route was created in order to give a similar option for those less adapt to the content by supplying a slightly easier method of reaching the end. Though a latter jump requires the use of a sprint jump, the previous jumps encourage its use in preparation for this and additionally, a falling block jump is secured by blocks to assist with these players.

Going forward, target coin columns have been placed at points from the start of the level to gradually train the agent once more, starting with normal jumps before progressing to gap jumps which should in time culminate with a successful clearing. As well as this, some areas have even had the agent reroute itself in order to obtain reward, a phenomenon which has not appeared too commonly in previous atempts. However, while such an approach may give a desired result over time, it may consume more time than is available which could consequently call for a different approach.

<figure class="video_container">
  <video width="640" height="360" controls="true" allowfullscreen="true">
    <source src="https://zd2horton.github.io/assets/video/8th December Level Alterations" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
</figure>