---
layout: post
title: Games Research and Development - Serious Games Introduction
date: 2021-02-02
excerpt: An explanation of the script's privatisation.
tags: [GRD, post, GRDpost]
GRDpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
As of this week, insight into the serious games workstream has begun. This includes games whose primary function isn't entertainment, with the zoning in of this being on scientific data visualisation. This can include such projects as Wii Fit, in which many visualisations are used for aspects like calories burned in a day, a weight chart and calories burned on activities outside of the game (for example bikeriding) which can all help a player know what they need to do in order to lose weight. As a more serious but visual use of data representation, A View of Despair is a visual display, with each element depicting someone who commited suicide in 2017 in the Netherlands (such as a tree representing someone who hanged themselves, the size of the element representing the person's age). Overall, serious games may fluctuate from the aforementioned examples to those oriented more around mental health and even product placement, but will usually intend to raise awareness for a particular topic.

As a whole, serious games seem to be more effective if playable and more subtle, letting the player pick up on the message or seriousness themselves without feeling patronised while still having an enjoyable experience. This leads onto the newly acquired task, which involves the creation of a dynamic and interactive scientific data visualisation. Impact for the research in question is potentially viable, with usefulness for a scientist in the specific area being a bonus. Changing the method of display is also another potential selling point, but the most important factor would be to implement the general information and present it in an interesting way for players to interact with. Due to its nature, this task seems notably interesting and can breed a significant amount of creativity on visualising even the simplest of data. Currently, basic visualisation ideas and the data set in question will be settled on, and though data is not expected to be collected by hand for the program there is a possibility that APIs be able to source the data for it, specifically from official public resources. Intended to be transformed into a JSON format for use by the game, this would help keep it up to date, while also giving a more refreshing experience for the players. Multiple ideas have currently been discussed with many themed around mental health or less serious statistics, but as of now a notable idea has been for a Theme Hospital style hospital simulator demonstrating the high volumes hospitals have been facing since the COVID-19 pandemic. A rough number of 50 beds could be represented by one in game patient, with the game gradually crowding the player's hospital more until they are required to free up space for the new COVID patients. Like Theme Hospital itself, the game would take a more light hearted tone as to be more appealing and approachable for a wider audience, with the non COVID patients having more comedic ailments as players would soon need to choose who to eject in order to free up beds.

The general idea of giving the player control of a careening out of control situation they need to save being discussed also assists with this idea, portraying the important factor of giving a more abstract way of telling the message while still being appealing by the game's own merits. Though showing the message in a more blunt fashion has been done multiple times by such projects as this, it may cause players to become less personally involved with the game and could also cause them to believe they are being lectured, which in turn can conclude that the more abstract style would be more appropriate. 