---
layout: post
title: Games Research and Development - Bio-Rover Update 2
date: 2021-04-22
excerpt: Contacting the client, and reflecting on the research given.
tags: [GRD, post, GRDpost]
GRDpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
As of current, contact with the client has provided some reading material created by them on the upcoming technology. With this, the Rover's biological aspect has been established as the Marimo, algae balls created from live photosynthetic filaments in a colony. These are a result of the process of rolling the filaments together by water currents, and through their photosynthetic processes they are able to produce gaseous oxygen bubbles which attach onto the Marimo's higher body thus changing their buoyancy, allowing for their use in such projects as the Bio-Rover and the minimisation of potential energy. With these projects, the intensity of a light source can directly correlate to the motor's functions such as rotation speed while with logic gates, the source is able to act as I/O signals and actuation power (being able to maintain a position between ends of its container vessel in this scenario for up to 30 minutes in appropriate sunlight). As this heliotropic process relies on the prescience of a light source, a lower light intensity may prove to be ineffective and give an insufficient rate of photosynthesis for generation of the bubbles (to add, too high or prolonged an intensity may damage the Marimo). Due to the prescience of nucleation sites in the filaments of the Marimo, a mesh is present allowing the retention of the bubbles for long periods of time which consequently allow the ball's buoyancy in water. Related to this, irregularly shaped Marimo balls were also found to float more on average due to their disproportionate and asymetrical shape reducing the overall rotations, retaining more of the produced bubbles.

In all, there are many advantages to using the Marimo as a potential source. Overall they are an extremely sustainable method due to their natural origins, thus resulting in low energy consumption to the potential point of zero electric grid consumption while also being able to use its own produced gases or biomass. Marimo is also able to grow in other forms beside from its ball form, being on rocks and also as a filament-esque carpet floating on an aquatic surface meaning that in combination with its long life span, it is notably reliable to come by while also being malleable for a number of uses. Though it may take several hours for a Marimo to initially produce bubbles or move in an unfamiliar environment (having to re-acclimatise possibly due to a rising concentration of dissolved gases or the previous state the Marimo was in), it is a useful and efficient source that can understandably be used in the Bio-Rover's proceedings.

As for the Bio-Rover's own mechanics, the idea of a Marimo based motor can be expanded upon with multiple Marimo each placed into transparent chambers located inside nearby the surface of a larger partly transparent chamber which is the Rover itself. Once the processes have been undertaken and buoyancy is achieved, the Rover is tilted away from the light source, with the smaller chambers having a gas vent for gases to escape once they reach near the top of the rover. Due to its nature, the Rover could travel on various landscapes, topologies and in water, which in turn can be shown in the playable project with the challenging environments that it will be able to traverse. Further progress will be made once a meeting has been arranged and undertaken with the client so that ideas can be discussed and fleshed out.