---
layout: post
title: Games Research and Development - Main Task Introduction
date: 2021-03-23
excerpt: Learning about each possible assignment.
tags: [GRD, post, GRDpost]
GRDpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
The potential client briefs have been showcased for the main task, conceptualisation of the potential ideas to take place over the next couple of weeks with rough page long proposals for two and a brief paragraph for the third.

Rain: This will be a continuation of the first assignment, asking for the analysis to go into more comparative qualities between different engines attempted for implementation, as well as a potential fuller game for the system and overall placing a giant emphasis on the aforementioned aspect of systems.

Impact: As a continuation of First Past the Post, the most recent project with a focus on visualisation, emphasis will be placed on the visualisation of (potentially scientific) data obtained from an online database with intention to offer an interesting experience based on a topic that the general public may not be invested in. With this, the project is intended to appeal to young adults who are not wholly invested in politics and voting, conveying a visualisation of previous elections and also informing them on the impact the prescience of non voters would have upon the standings if they voted.

Bio-Rover: Headed by an unconventional computing group based on work of biological systems, the Bio-Rover is a newer alternate to electro and mechanical rovers, which substitutes more conventional fueling such as motors and batteries for biological processes in order to power itself. This uses a process including the exposing of algae filaments to sunlight in order to photosynthesise, with the resulting bubbles shifting the machine's centre of mass and causing movement as a result. With this, the task is to create a game in which the bio-rover is able to be demonstrated in its adaptive nature and challenging environments. 

Centre for Music: A service to provide students with support for music creation, gigs, and other music based facilities, the Centre of Music is open to all students however they do not seem to realise that the centre exists or have knowledge of what they offer. The brief at hand here asks for a gamified experience allowing students to explore the facilities and events on offer from the centre, possibly being structured around question buttons such as what music they like or what instruments they would play, to lead into different areas they can interact with. This in turn can be bolstered by the large collection of auditory and visual assets in turn creating a dynamic and immersive experience that is able to raise awareness for the centre.

NF-Core: This is a community extended tool set for handling bio-informatics data, such as the sequencing of different genomes. The continual development of it on github depends on the community and team of developers built up over time, with the desire to have this reach extended with gamification and other tools assisting with building a stronger community. Various ways of going about this include the pulling of the core's stats into a package functional for any github organisation, with the extension of the existing leaderboard and further gamification such as achievements be present in order to encourage contributions.

Drag'n'Drop Molecules and Nanotechnology: French company IMN's previous endeavours with UWE have included the displaying of modules and nanomaterials on a 3D glass display, with another being a visualisation project using Kinect. Their current wishes are for these to be regularly used by the company itself, a unified generalisation and simplification of the projects being needed. This is further hampered by the current lack of compatibility between the projects, and both different and clunky display styles and interfaces for bringing molecules into the tools.

Physics Lessons: Another foundation based in France, the University of Nantes requires visualisation of molecule and crystals in a 3D space in order to further better their teaching. This is being requested in the form of an AR app, preferably without an install while also allowing for users to pan and zoom about the models, as well as look closer into particular elements such as their symmetry and planes.

Degree Quest: With this, the institution in question has requested for a project to make academic regulations more interesting for students and teachers, helping to present and teach them to the target audience. For students, this may include the plotting of information based on passing their modules, as well as potential milestones and other academic information that can help them understand their awards more. A prominent current example has been to potentially gamify this information, and help the target audience navigate through the information they need to know.

Growing Crops with Climate Change: The client here would like to portray the message of not wasting mains water with allotment plots, in turn making plots more sustainable and efficient. In turn, a game similar to other "gardening" titles but showcasing the usefulness and acquisition of rainwater for growing plants has been raised.

Student's Union: The Student Union at UWE itself wishes for more engagement from students with elections, as they happen to decide an extreme amount of important positions in not only the union itself but a large pool of societies. As the current percentage of students that vote hovers within the 13% mark, awareness about the Union elections needs to increase so that the threshold of students voting rises with it and ideally up to at least 50%. As such, a method to garner students' interest is being requested, potentially through a simple voting application or the ability to even possibly vote through manifestos. As well as this, the final product may also potentially be useful in general elections if optimal.

Visualising Academia Project: Though there is a large wealth of information and resources available, it may not always be consistent or accessible with such drawbacks as necessary subscriptions. As well as this, looking into this information may not be very friendly for a majority of people or new learners, possibly requiring specialist skills to head over to more relevant content. As such, an application to remedy this and assist academics and researchers is being requested with the ability to collect and catalogue all of the information and display what is needed. Such features in the application could include the spreading out of data from one journal, the visualisation of all background information of a source, and the ability to grant accessibility for those who may not be as refined in research.

Accessible Virtual Multitrack: The Self-Isolation Choir is a service which allows users to contribute to a choir from home, also giving courses online to assist with their singing before recording their voice contributions. However, with this there is a lack of a dedicated application which can help gather and merge contributions, and due to this the target audience may become confused with how the process works. As well as this, studio engineers have been required to assist with any file formats that may sprout from this confusion, while some wishing to participate may finish not doing so due to general confusion and the nature of the service. A large pile of issues such as this and the lack of being able to retry contributions have given rise to the requesting of an application that is able to bridge the gap of understanding with technology and give a more accessible experience.

As a whole, there is a wide and varied range of available briefs. In terms of newly proposed ideas both the Bio-Rover and Centre of Music seem to be most interesting and accessible for development, with both focusing on equally intriguing matters. With the former, there is an extremely high possibility of the need to develop level terrains so that the Bio-Rover is able to be optimally showcased, while the Centre of Music's proposition can assist in potentially opening new avenues for students and begin to interest them in taking up a musical side. Alongside this, the continuation of First Past the Post also feels notably appealing, especially with the successful implementation of the game's election data. As such, proposals for these three specific tasks will be undertaken.