---
layout: post
title: Commercial Games Studio - Apex Run Pitch
date: 2021-02-24
excerpt: Reflecting on feedback given.
tags: [CGS, post, CGSpost]
CGSpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
Overall, the pitch for Apex Run's new direction was received fairly well. Many aspects such as the vehicular combat were praised, and many pieces of advice were given. This includes marketability in a potential pitch, with the warning not to bank entirely on innovation. This is notably important as investors may wish for more established aspects of a game as a potential sense of confidence in backing a project, and referring to the downhill competitive nature of the idea as "hill climb racing" may assist in giving them assurance. As well as this, emphasis on being a party game at heart was placed (keeping people together and invested, being open to everyone) but making sure to not use weapons in the project. Just as surmised in previous meetings concerning the issue, weapon based combat may take a large amount of the focus away from the driving, and make gameplay overly chaotic and possibly unbalanced considering the nature of power-ups and weapons in pre-existing racing games. The topic of vehicular focus also managed to extend more into aspects including interactions with other cars whether hostile knocking about and encouraging a local multiplayer atmosphere both as to heighten the experience. However, in particular giving combos that players are able to do their own unique spins stuck out, as for the racing genre examples of this are extremely sparce if not existent at all. Thus, this would give a notably unique risk/reward selling and marketing point for the game with its tighter focus on the vehicles themselves, causing it to stand out more as a result and provide a subtle yet prevalent sense of flow.

Another valuable idea pointed out was to make the racing like popcorn, in which players will want to do another race and another, repeating and giving the players a large feeling of enjoyment from repeated tries. As a result of its atmosphere and genre, the project certainly does need to be vastly replayable, so that players that still come back to it with others are able to enjoy it as much as previous playthroughs. To add, talks surrounding balance was also had, some examples being a non intrusive comeback mechanic for those behind in the race as well as potential arcade game esque events that can be triggered by players trailing behind. These aspects of the game can help with maintaining enjoyment for losing players, and keep them involved in the game without much irritation on their part. Giving those who are behind such things as faster meter buildup and better traction would also still be successful in this ideology, while also letting those in front carry on with the ways they wish to play rather than being punished with offensive approaches that those lower down could take such as the Spiny Shell from Mario Kart.