---
layout: post
title: Commercial Games Studio - Introductory Session
date: 2021-02-01
excerpt: 
tags: [CGS, post, CGSpost]
CGSpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
In the first session, the expectations for the course were given in more detail. Three workstreams are to be expected over time, with each being created as an alpha before over time two move into a beta stage and a final one is produced as a gold build. Similar to Commercial Games Development, documentation and a viva are expected for each while aspects of the projects' creations should be thought of in a commercial and strategic fashion, connecting back to the industry and commercialisation overall. This will be especially important with flow, in which a game's player will be fully immersed and invested into the game, letting the difficulty of the game rise steadily with a player's skill. 

As for the first assignment, the requirement is to create a "killer, hosted game MRE" for AltSpaceVR which should be a stable event that can be triggered by either 2D or VR users. Ideas have currently been propositioned, including a more casual quiz event intended for icebreaking as well as a party game consisting of minigames. However, a more interesting idea propositioned is the idea of an escape room or dungeon requiring teamwork to beat obstacles. Such an idea would give vastly more room for the players to be under the process of flow, while also allowing for replayability if the stages are procedurally generated. The parallels between the ideas were explored further in the application itself as more casual activities such as dart throwing and question answering were experienced, before travelling to a number of escape rooms. Overall the riddles contained in each room required the team to work together in order to solve them, becoming more difficult with each room and instilling a sense of accomplishment with each one. While an escape room in this form may be classed as a potential quiz, it gives a bigger sense of interactivity due to creative uses of the space around the players, such as picking up clues or key items. As such, an interactive escape game such as this could be very well suited to incentivising play in AltSpaceVR.