---
layout: post
title: Commercial Games Studio - Choosing a final idea for the AltSpaceVR experience
date: 2021-02-04
excerpt: Finalising an idea after careful consideration.
tags: [CGS, post, CGSpost]
CGSpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
A final idea has been reached after lengthy discussion of other potential candidates. An aforementioned issue with the castle proposition being the inability to jump was discussed first, with a suggestion being the omission of building vertically and another being having vertical assistance such as stairs for use. While these ideas initially seem to quell the issue, the lack of vertical building would not only subtract from the experience but also cause the entire concept of castle building to fall alongside it, while the latter idea would become flawed when the team would be required to build in the middle of their creations.

As well as this, concerns with movable blocks potentially not having collision with objects nor being affected by physics were also raised, as these elements would hinder blocking incoming balls as well as being knocked over. The prospect of having a building team against an attacking team was discussed alongside this, having a barrier placed in the middle that disappears when the attacking phase commences. The issue arising from this being of the attacking team not having much interactivity until the attacking phase was then contested with the possibility of breaking through the barrier from the start, however this was then contested in return by the factor of breakable barriers being difficult to implement in AltSpaceVR. After this, the idea then moved to the attacking team needing to traverse a space in order to arrive at the castle, but this was refuted by the mention of a lack of a symmetrical game model. As a final contribution to the overall proposal, it was suggested that the throwable balls stick to the builder's castle and reduce health from it. 

With the uncertainty of the implementation of the game, as well as missing flow for each side across the board, talks of the escape room were restarted with a more fast paced idea to it in terms of gameplay giving it a similar feel to existing real life obstacle courses. Unlike the other ideas, the escape room would be able to ground itself and not require jumping or flying while also being able to be undertaken under the players' own pace. From here, more new ideas were explored such as a score based hoop game, pachinko and golf. Though these are simpler suggestions that are not very programming intensive, they are more well suited to the idea of AltSpaceVR and its calmer atmosphere and are not as intensive to implement while also being easier to possibly import. 

After more discussion, a minigolf idea was chosen as the final game. The nine hole formula would create sessions that are not too long, but are also short enough for players to come back to while also increasing in difficulty as they settle more into the game. This helps create a sense of flow for the players, while maintaining a competitive yet calm setting. The game in its current form while not using golf balls or clubs will work using the basketball asset in AltSpaceVR with the players being required to have their basketballs travel to the hole of each course in as few throws as possible, ideally equal to or less than the par. Though basic in execution, because of this the concept is able to be equally serviceable for both 2D and VR players and is also one of if not the only ideas in which one player is able to play alone. This is due to the fact that each course will be laid out before the game is played, and players will not be required to rely on each other for setup. Another advantage of a minigolf esque experience would be that despite the preset courses that will not be randomly generated, a sense of replayability is still present as players may wish to refine and optimise their scores, or due to the compact length of the game possibly play once again with the group they are currently occupied with so that they can attempt to win. 

As a result, due to the number of advantages over disadvantages of working on a minigolf concept as well as serving as a creatable concept if AltSpaceVR programming and interactivity capabilities are unable to service the other ideas, the idea will be continually built on from here. While the game is very self imposed, potential rule breakings will not be as severe as they could be in the dodgeball and castle ideas, not to mention that a situation such as this would also be far more open for remedy especially in a singleplayer experience. Finally, the idea also gives flexibility for development of dynamic obstacles. These will make the gameplay loop considerably more interesting, as players will be required to be tactical with their throws in order to still obtain as low as a throw score as possible. This concept, along with potential scoresheets players can use to keep track of their progress, will open up idea to be programmed for.