---
layout: post
title: Commercial Games Studio - Apex Drive Update 1
date: 2021-03-03
excerpt: Fleshing out the idea further, and assigning roles.
tags: [CGS, post, CGSpost]
CGSpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
Before the recent session, it was reaffirmed that eliminated players should have something to do in order to retain engagement, whether this would include assisting teammates or hampering the progress or victory of others. Players should also be able to easily avoid capsizing themselves off of the mountain, skillful manoeuvring allowing them to keep on the road. The overall gameplay loop has been determined also, with a full on elimination style approach utilising a single camera in local multiplayer mode and small bubbles to show offscreen players to inform them of such and allowing them to catch up before they're eliminated. As the players race around the track and continue to maintain their positions as to not avoid elimination, combos can be utilised to build up a special power-up meter in turn receiving an offense, defensive or utility power-up. The game rounds in all will be short, playing a last man standing set until a certain amount of wins have been reached while new rounds begin where the previous ended. This should help keep a quick enough pace, and give the sense of urgency and intensity. As for the art direction, a Holi style aesthetic has been discussed as well as a sunset esque mood for a snowy Nepal mountain, Holi in of itself being an extremely colourful and vibrant Hindu festival. The discussed approach with Holi is to have colours almost burst about, giving the game an extremely unique art style while with the sunset approach things will generally have a sunny shimmer to them. Both will help immensely in making the project stand out, and can supply it with an approachable and appealing style. To fit with this theme and further set the style of the game apart, Tuk Tuks have been chosen as the reference for the vehicles, if not being the vehicles in question. While being fitting in of themselves, they may also potentially give way for more comical and zany driving experiences in game.

From here, detailings of the level design process will be given, being an incredibly important aspect of the game as it not only gives the grounds for an initial playable game but also assists in teaching players the rules and controls of the game, and puts these teachings to the test. As of the moment the pre-existing island asset will be the foundations for a practice alpha level, others in the group suggesting a very simple climb up as such but as a whole this doesn't serve to showcase the player's ability very well even in an alpha stage. As a result, this alpha level will be created with the intentions of doing as such, including bumps that the players may need to navigate around, turns which later on could require drifting, zig zag sections for more tight driving, as well as more tame driving elements and hills which could showcase more combo opportunities for players. Obstacles may also be implemented, but currently the more basic aspects of the game's wirings will take precedence.