---
layout: post
title: Games Research and Development - Bio-Rover Update 3
date: 2021-04-30
excerpt: Meeting the client and acquiring information.
tags: [GRD, post, GRDpost]
GRDpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
Due to the recent meeting held with the client, a large amount of insight and information have been given into both the project and the Rover itself. As for the Rover, many aspects were discussed such as general viability on Mars through solar panels (said panels also being useful for transmitters through collecting power) to current experiments undertaken with it and the more simple, direct source of movement of the Marimo. As of current a number of these have taken place at a swimming pool, in which it was discovered that the Rover is able to go around an object or even climb a wall if such a thing is hit, a large number of oxygen bubbles being created that with the latter the Rover climbs up and dispells back down. For the Marimo itself, which can slowly grow in size and in turn value, its long life of up to a century and counting alongside its own availability and adaptability in environments sets it apart from other limited alternates like seaweed. The overall usefulness of the Rover was talked about in depth, with space in the middle being usable for instrumentation such as photogrammetry devices in order to obtain information, sample takers and potentially even phones which could be used to take videos. Devices such as these could save on power via merely exiting a standby or off mode (possibly modulated through arduino) at intervals when required to obtain samples or through using an internal battery, though due to only requiring to take occasional samples both methods combined could be optimal (for instance, photos taken hourly underwater in turn being able to last a month before the Rover is then made buoyant in order to float to the surface). These methods help in differentiating the Bio-Rover from other Rovers, as it would not require a long amount of charging in order to function for a small handful of minutes or pure internal battery power which could otherwise limit its potential. 

Though with this, the Rover also entails a number of limitations that may either assist with its purpose or disable it from making more advanced movements. Due to its light source based movement it will decrease in speed with shadier spots such as large shadows of objects, and as its rotund shape moves away from the light source rather than towards it this will consequently result in a potential drop off in power if a consistent pool of light does not follow behind. As well as this, it will likely also only drive in the same direction for at least a long period of time due to the nature of even natural light. 

With the potential given for the Rover, its abilities should then be tested and showcased in an appropriate environment and as such, these were also discussed. Fitting with the initial ideas, other planetary locations (which in the project could be generated procedurally, and the Rover moves away from the sun itself) may prove to be easier for the Rover to navigate due to their lessened gravity and atmosphere, though this proves to be different with Venus as it contains far more gaseous atmosphere and pressure than other planets in the Solar System. In turn, if planetary locations are chosen as levels then it may prove effective to find solutions around the issues surrounding the planet and implement these into a more difficult level, which in turn may leave impressions on space groups such as NASA and further spread interest for the Bio-Rover. As well as this, more aquatic locations were also analysed, as using a Rover to obtain data and samples would be able to save on resources due to potential lake and underwater expeditions requiring a boat, support crew and a large amount of equipment. Exploring these locations would prove to be useful in a number of ways from collecting samples to photos of aquatic life, and even being able to reach such things in deeper waters with ease as the Rover may not suffer from water pressure unlike divers who would be required to slowly go through stages of pressure in order to both lower down and return to the surface. As a whole, due to the wide variety of lifeforms and locales, underwater areas may prove to provide superior showing off of the Rover when compared to an empty planet's more void and craterous landscape.

Overall, as emphasised with the potential issue with Venus, the project can also act as not only a game or educational method to spread knowledge of the Rover but also be an enabler for ideas, with some scientific merit being able to find out what the Bio-Rover can achieve in turn promoting it even further and inspiring others (as well as opening the project and Rover up for more feedback consequently). The client would also be able to use the project to market the Rover, as a more hands on showcase of its abilities would help with explaining its uses than other mediums, in turn assisting in precuring funds from organisations (such as ESA, NASA and MoD) and environment agencies which may be assisted further if the project uses the Rover in scenarios potential investors would undergo. For potential mechanics, glass that is able to become darker or use a kind of coating could be implemented on parts of the Rover as to give more comfortable steering due to altering or lowering light influence appropriately, possibly allowing it to control closer to a more conventional vehicle gameplay wise. Gas valves were also mentioned, with a release of compressed gas allowing for a burst of speed or floating up to the surface. Like with the real Rover, an internal battery could also be selectable so that the Rover is able to push itself out of otherwise dark and travellable locations, with a potential game loop building on this and involving the acquisition of credits usable for instrumentation in missions. This instrumentation could then open more missions for the player, such as data collection instruments and solar panels for more difficult missions. In terms of a flow induced gameplay loop, environments may dictate difficulty in which calmer locales and places to visit are used initially to ease the player in (including a tutorial teaching mechanics and controls) before slowly introducing obstacles such as planetary crevices and large shadowed areas to challenge the player. These more challenging environments could also entail more complicated missions, going from a simple environment monitoring/status check or collectable acquisition to a quest finding a specific lifeform or structure. Finally, a 3rd person view would be optimal, as it would allow for easier viewing of both the terrain and potential light sources, giving players more information to work with around them than if they were to try and find out the same information in a 1st person hood perspective (though this may also be a selectable option).

As of current, impressions are on the idea of aquatic based missions for the prototype. These could equip the Rover with a laser scanner and map, allowing it to collect data samples and overall being very open to gamification due to the large amount of exploration and objectives a lake or sea could provide. Multiple cameras could also be fixed to the Rover with a map helping the player out, energy serving similar to health and being consumed with actions such as looking about or moving. Though this could be realistic and could match up with tests as a project such as this would intend, it may be preferable to have a field of vision decrease rather than battery as otherwise this may clash with player engagement. The environment would also be able to lend itself to more aspects contributing to an interesting and enjoyable playable experience, such as monitoring watercourses (though current speed may need to be lowered to owe to this), avoiding shady patches and seaweed in order to stay in sunlight and in higher difficulities, navigating through unexplored naval mines. In a case such as this, the Bio-Rover not expelling much noise would contribute to the authenticity, as the oxygen bubbles, movement and camera would produce minimal noise while the Rover itself does not possess a motor that would whirr and in turn frighten sealife. Infrared dots would be another gameplay based instrument at the player's disposal, allowing for more purposeful picture acquisition through attracting the sealife to them. With this overall concept, it will be easier from here to direct attention into promptly creating a well rounded, complete but not too ambitious concept that could then be developed into a larger product. In terms of visuals, time constraints would also play a role as trying to obtain heavily realistic graphics would not be possible in the few months available for development. As such, a potentially stylistic choice could be chosen so that the prototype looks appealing for investors and other interested parties while enough time is dedicated to gameplay development. For the report required at the end of development, overall progress and ideas will be discussed, as well as trials and decisions faced during development and individual contributions made including their wider context in the project. From here, base assets will be acquired so that development can begin, and appropriate individuals such as environmentalists and aquatic groups could be contacted as to assist with research and development.