---
layout: post
title: Creative Technologies Master Dissertation Update 21
date: 2021-11-20
excerpt: Implementing more agent direction and random blocks in the gap jump.
tags: [CTMD, post, CTMDpost]
CTMDpost: true
category: post
published: true
comments: true
---
With default runs proving successful, focus turned to adjusting certain hyperparameters. A Ray Perception Sensor was tuned to assist with this, registering the presences of the platforms, collectables and enemies in order to navigate correctly. These are intended in order to give more of a vision to the agent, allowing it to traverse the environment more effectively. From this, training became responsive extremely quickly, reaching scores of 0.8 and above in early runs. 

Additionally, singular blocks placed at random intervals have been implemented for gap jumps in order to give variety to agent attempts and train the agent for different circumstances (set through a random value to decide the x value of the block or its presence entirely). These will also aid the agent in assuring that it does not follow the same environment each time, as such a behaviour may cause it to develop negative tendencies.

As well as this, an issue arose with both training and model use in which the agent would act differently as intended or expected. Though this was found to be due to the player agent being selected in the editor, a root reason as to why this occured was not found. Research has also begun into aspects of play, with Homo Ludens and Man, Play and Games being notable titles aiding such.

<figure class="video_container">
  <video width="640" height="360" controls="true" allowfullscreen="true">
    <source src="https://zd2horton.github.io/assets/video/20th Nov Sensor and Block.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
</figure>